# leaflet-challenge

## Overview

This activity is broken into two parts: Leaflet-Part-1 provides a simple map to locate all the earthquakes from the past 7 days while Leaflet-Part-2 provides extra information layered upon the map generated in Part 1.  

## Using the Project

-   Leaflet-Part-1 folder contains the following files:
    -   The file style.css provides styling for Part 1.
    -   The file logic.js provides the coding for the visualisation including:
      **loading tilelayer, 
      ** conneting to geojson API using D3, 
      ** setting markers with size corresponing to earthquake magnitude and color corresponding to earthquake depth
      ** a legend showing the depth and their corresponding colour.
    -   The file index.html: Open the index.html for the visualisation, including:
      ** data points scale with magnitude level
      ** data points colours change with depth level
      ** each point has a tooltip including the magnitude, the location, and depth, among other info.

-   Leaflet-Part-2 folder contains: 
    -   The file style.css provides styling for Part 2, which is essentially the same as the styling in Part 1.
    -   The file logic.js provides the coding for the visualisation (different coding format for learning purposes) including:
      **loading tilelayer, 
      ** conneting to geojson API using D3, 
      ** setting markers with size corresponing to earthquake magnitude and color corresponding to earthquake depth
      ** a legend showing the depth and their corresponding colour.
      In addition to the above, the logic.js also provides the coding for the basemap and overlay map, specifically, topographic map in the basemap and the tectonic plates in the overlay map.
    -   The file index.html: Open the index.html for the visualisation, including:
      ** the previous map accessible from Part-1
      ** the extra layers as mentioned above that can be turned on and off independently.

## Data ethics considered

During the process of working on the challenge,  efforts are made to adhere to data ethics, including the rules for privacy and ethical coding when extracting data, exploring codes for visiualisations. All the resources used are acknowledged and referenced below.

## References/acknowledgements

- University of Adelaide. (2023). Module 15 contents in particular.
https://bootcampspot.instructure.com/courses/4781/pages/15-advanced-interactive-visualisations-using-javascript?module_item_id=1163132
- HTML color codes. Retrieved from (https://htmlcolorcodes.com/)
- The help from Xpert Learning Assistant and the tutor Saad Khan as well as from the teaching staff are also acknowledged herein. 

**Data**
- Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
- Data for Earthquakes, retrieved from USGS (https://earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/feed/v1.0/geojson.php)
- Data for tectonic plates, retrived from github (https://github.com/fraxen/tectonicplates)